well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again so tonight we're gonna talk about
grammar and pronouns and the history of
the English language had a guy telling
me today that I didn't think we should
have to rewrite the entire English
language because of the personal
preferences of one person fair enough
fair enough but that got me thinking
about something I knew but didn't really
know so I started reading about the
development of the English language so
it started with a old English that's 450
to 1100 it's when the Germanic people
first came over mixed with the locals
that were already there and and that's
where that language came from we
wouldn't really be able to read it today
unless we were trained to do so Middle
English was next and that's 1100 to 1500
and that's the edition of French the
French came in because a guy named
William the Conqueror from Normandy came
over he brought French with him became
the language of the royal court there
was a class divided the peasants used
English and the ruling elites used
French then you get early modern English
which is 1500 to 1800 and the vowels
became shorter and there was the
introduction of more foreign words
because of colonization then you get
late modern which is 1802 now which is
wider vocabulary because of the
Industrial Revolution and the
technological revolution we needed words
to describe things like cell phones and
then still more addition of foreign
words so that's the history of the
English language
now in the 1700s middle 1700 a fad
developed called prescriptive grammar
and basically they were little books
that told you the proper way to speak
rather than descriptive grammar which is
the way people actually talk okay now
one of these books was written by a guy
named Rob Lau and he later became Bishop
of London and he wrote a short intro to
English grammar shortly thereafter a guy
named Sir Charles coots expanded on this
volume and he included his personal
preference of using he and him and his
as the generic pronoun in 1850
Parliament ratified this codified it
turned it in a law the rest of the time
for the overwhelming majority of the
history of the English language we had a
gender-neutral pronoun a singular
gender-neutral pronoun they it's not
actually rewriting the English language
to suit one person's personal preference
it's stopping that because that's what
happened with the expansion because that
book became a textbook so all of the
ruling elites became trained in this
manner and his personal preference bled
through the entire language it's how it
happened
so they them bears that's actually the
norm that's the norm for the
overwhelming majority of the history of
the English language we had a singular
gender-neutral pronoun but I mean I
guess we can rewrite the entire language
because of one person's personal
preference anyway it's just a thought
y'all have a good night